Changes in @NEW@:
  o New Features:
    * Several small changes were made for compatibility with Python
      2.6.
    * The rMakeUrl set automatically during initial configuration setup
      when using rBuilder Appliance now defaults to https. (RBLD-182)

Changes in 1.0:
  o General Availability:
    * rBuild is now generally available for use as a command-line tool.
      See the README file for more information on using rBuild directly
      from Python programs.

Changes in 0.17:
  o Beta:
    * rBuild is now in beta release status.

  o New Features:
    * rBuild now tests to make sure that the product definition has
      at least one image defined before certain critical operations
      that require that at least one image is defined.  Previously,
      it would give various cryptic error messages as the result of
      failed operations due to lack of defined images. (RBLD-171)

  o Bug Fixes:
    * Early in rBuild development, a workaround for insufficient
      definition of flavors for images was added.  This workaround is
      no longer necessary and may be harmful in some cases, so it
      has been removed. (RBLD-172)

Changes in 0.16:
  o New Features:
    * "rbuild promote" will now "flatten" all troves that are not in
      the product's search path (e.g. those from contrib.rpath.org) onto
      the target label. Additionally, troves that are on the product's
      label will be re-rooted so they no longer reference upstream
      packages. (RBLD-168)

Changes in 0.15:
  o API Changes:
    * The expectations for API backward compatibility have been
      modified, as documented in the README file. (RBLD-166)

  o New Features:
    * The interview process now asks the user if they want to set up rMakeUrl
      automatically to connect to a running rMake server on an rBA if
      possible. (RBLD-163)
    * The checkout command with --new argument will now detach a package from
      its parent if run against a package that has been shadowed on to the
      product's label. (RBLD-30)

  o Bug Fixes:
    * The rebase plugin is now much more conservative, and will bail
      out if any merge conflicts or modified files exist, preventing
      product checkouts from invisibly diverging from what is in the
      repository. (RBLD-164)
    * The rebase plugin no longer says that it has updated to version
      "None" when no newer version is available. (RBLD-164)

Changes in 0.14:
  o New Features:
    * The interview process during initial configuration now checks that the
      provided url is an rbuilder, and it tries to authorize the provided
      credentials.  If either fail, prompts are displayed for re-entry.
      (RBLD-113)
    * The init command has improved error handling and messages when an
      invalid product name or label is given. (RBLD-111)
    * You can now create shadows of packages on arbitrary labels
      in your product, using a command line something like:
      "rbuild checkout --shadow package=foo.rpath.org@rpl:2"
      Previously, you were limited to shadows of packages included
      in your platform. (RBLD-145)

  o User Interface Changes:
    * The promote plugin now provides an initial progress indication.

  o Bug Fixes:
    * When reconfiguring rbuild (rbuild config --ask), the password
      previously entered will no longer be displayed. (RBLD-102)
    * The usage statement for rbuild init has been clarified. (RBLD-161)
    * The publish and show images plugins were previously not installed
      during a "make install". (RBLD-159)
    * Certain combinations of image types could result in fewer flavors
      of a package or group being built than necessary. This has been
      corrected. (RBLD-160)

Changes in 0.13:
  o New Features:
    * Use new distinction between searchPath elements intended to
      be part of a development environment for building the product
      but not included in the product itself, and those searchPath
      elements which are available to include within the product by
      default.  This allows the development environment to be kept
      separate from the platform, but still kept synchronized with
      the "rbuild rebase" command.  Requires rpath-product-definition
      0.5 or later to build groups. (RBLD-150)
    * The commit message when building and committing packages or groups
      can now be specified with the --message or -m command-line
      argument. (RBLD-120)

  o User Interface Changes:
    * The "rbuilder" program has been moved to a separate package,
      rbuilder-client, because it has a different operating model
      than the rbuild tool.  In particular, it expressly does not
      honor product-definition, instead taking all data from
      command-line arguments. (RBLD-152)
    * The "rbuild rebase" command now provides both a "from" and a
      "to" version in its output, to make it clearer what operations
      happened during the rebase operation.
    * Some long-running operations print a time-stamped status
      message during normal operation (disabled during quiet
      operation) as a "pacifier". (RBLD-156)

  o Bug Fixes:
    * After successfully building a set of images, rBuild previously
      failed to correctly compose a release in rBuilder due to an
      undefined symbol.  This has been fixed. (RBLD-154)
    * The "rbuild rebase" command updates the product definition before
      rebasing, to avoid regression in product definition data. (RBLD-155)
    * Epydoc generation has been fixed. (RBLD-144)

  o API Changes:
    * The ui.progress() method has been added for providing non-essential
      progress information to users.  The default implementation prints
      a timestamp preceding the message. (RBLD-156)

Changes in 0.12:
  o New Features:
    * The "rbuilder" program has been added as a backward-compatible
      user interface for the rbuilder command line previously included
      within the rBuilder product.  Portions of the "rbuilder" program
      interfaces may be removed over time as the "rbuild" program
      gains capabilities.  For that reason, rPath recommends using
      the "rbuild" program where there is overlap between the "rbuilder"
      and "rbuild" programs, such as building images. (RBLD-119)

Changes in 0.11:
  o New Features:
    * There is a new rbuild publish command.  The publish command now
      (by default) publishes and mirrors (if mirroring is enabled) a
      product release in rBuilder.  By default, releases are now
      created at the end of image builds.  Optional --release-name,
      --release-version, and --release-description arguments can
      be used to describe the release created as part of building
      images.  Requires rMake 1.0.25 or later. (RBLD-42)

  o Internal Changes:
    * Various small changes for consistency, primarily documentation
      and removing unused imports and variables, as discovered by
      pylint.

  o API Changes:
    * The conaryfacade.refresh method now takes an optional targetDir
      parameter.  For this reason, refresh now will require Conary
      2.0.32 or later. (RBLD-139)
    * The base exception class now makes subclassing rBuild exceptions
      with meaningful parameters simpler. (RBLD-38)
    * The exceptions BaseError and InternalError have been renamed to
      RbuildBaseError and RbuildInternalError, respectively. (RBLD-38)
    * The handle.ui object now has a getYn method. (RBLD-30)
    * rbuild.constants.VERSION_TUPLE is now available as a tuple
      of integers in the rBuild version (not including any changeset
      IDs appended to the rBuild version string).

  o Bug Fixes:
    * rBuilder facade errors are now output with more context and have
      their own exception class RbuilderError. (RBLD-38)
    * When multiple searchPath elements are present in the product
      definition, rBuild now looks for packages in the latest versions
      of each group listed in the searchPath, rather than only in the
      most recently committed group on the searchPath. (RBLD-146)

Changes in 0.10:
  o Bug Fixes:
    * The productDefinitionSearchPath macro no longer includes
      flavors, as macros cannot be defined differently between
      different group flavors being built together. (RBLD-134)
    * The "rbuild update" command in a package checkout no longer
      fails with "IndexError: string index out of range". (RBLD-137)
    * The "rbuild update" command will now update group checkouts
      as well as package checkouts. (RBLD-138)

Changes in 0.9:
  o New Features:
    * autoLoadRecipe tags are now read from the platform definition in the 
      product definition and set on the rMake config. (RBLD-95)
    * The build images command can now take an optional list of images to
      build, for example, rbuild build images 'Image 1' 'Image 2' will
      build only those images with exactly matching names. (RBLD-44)
    * The build groups command will now read sourceGroup elements from the
      product definition, and use those source groups as the groups to build.
      (RBLD-110)
    * The productDefinitionSearchPath macro is now set for package and
      group builds so that the ApplianceGroupRecipe superclass can use
      it to set a search path that matches the product definition.
      (RBLD-108)
    * The rbuild status command has been significantly enhanced to give
      more useful output. (RBLD-115)
    * The rbuild build packages, rbuild build groups, and rbuild build
      images commands now warn (with an option to quit) if the product
      definition is no longer up to date. (RBLD-34)

  o Bug Fixes:
    * A product update no longer prints an error message if the product is up
      to date. (RBLD-117)
    * Don't force a run of the initialization sequence for the help or config
      commands. (RBLD-87)
    * Fix traceback that resulted from trying to fetch a product definition
      for a non-existant version. Give an error message specifying valid
      versions. (RBLD-82)
    * When specifying "rbuild checkout <package> --new", don't try to create
      the package if it already exists.  Improve messaging when --new causes
      packages of the same name from upstream sources to be ignored.  Improve
      messaging when --new is used and name conflicts result. (RBLD-30)
    * Errors raised by plugins now are separate from errors raised by
      rBuild internals; the new rbuild.errors.PluginError class is
      available to raise or subclass for plugin-specific error conditions.
    * Tag scripts are no longer run on the binary checkout when checking
      out a derived package. (RBLD-29)

Changes in 0.8:
  o New Features:
    * Added a new --refresh argument to the "rbuild build packages"
      command that refreshes sources of packages being built. (RBLD-61)

  o User Interface Changes:
    * rBuild now prints a helpful error message if it attempts but
      fails to contact the rMake service, and provides other rMake
      errors verbatim, since they are meant to be readable. (RBLD-112)

  o Bug Fixes:
    * Updated the rbuild init help text to note the appropriate usage.
      (RBLD-74)
    * Removed spurious epydoc formatting from various help messages.
      (RBLD-70)
    * Fix tracebacks when asking for help on non-existant subcommands.
      (RBLD-73)

Changes in 0.7:
  o Bug Fixes:
    * The rbuild update stage command has been fixed. (RBLD-89)
    * The file permissions for the ~/.rbuildrc and <project>/.rbuild/rbuildrc
      files are no longer created with world readable permissions. (RBLD-105)

  o Internal Changes:
    * A hidden --lsprof command line argument is now available for
      profiling with the lsprof profiler.  It will write an
      rbuild.lsprof binary profile summary. (RBLD-104)

Changes in 0.6:
  o New Features:
    * The "rbuild build packages" command now accepts a --no-recurse
      option, which will build exactly the packages listed without
      utilizing the group recipe to look for other related packages
      to build. (RBLD-93)
    * Added a "rmakeUser" configuration option for use with multi-node
      rMake.  This will override the defaults taken from "user".
      (RBLD-94)

  o Bug Fixes:
    * The rbuild build images command now can handle multiple images
      built from the same name, version, and flavor group.  Previously,
      only one image of each name, version, flavor combination was
      built. (RBLD-92)

  o API Changes:
    * Requires rMake with rmakeClient.createImageJob() API changes
      defined in RMK-907. (RBLD-92)

  o Internal Changes:
    * Reference loops between the handle and other objects have been
      eliminated by using weakrefs.

Changes in 0.5:
  o Bug Fixes:
    * Creating a derived package with rbuild no longer writes the
      conary state file into the stage directory. (RBLD-86)
    * The rbuild promote command now handles promoteMaps that
      re-root shadows. (RBLD-91)

Changes in 0.4:
  o Bug Fixes:
    * rBuilder passwords are no longer displayed in error messages or
      traceback dumps. (RBLD-66)
    * The rbuildrc file created on "rbuild init" no longer includes
      passwords, and provides informational comments only for options
      other than repositoryMap. (RBLD-77)

  o API Changes:
    * rbuild now uses rMake to communicate to rbuilder. (RBLD-45)

  o Interface Changes:
    * Product information is now stored in a way that allows calling
      code to override the product storage, and the abstract product
      concepts are separate from the implementation of a checkout
      directory.  The Product plugin has been removed, and
      rbuild.productstore has been added. (RBLD-60)
    * Error reports are now stored in .rbuild/tracebacks/ when an error
      occurs while working in a product checkout. (RBLD-78)
    * The "rbuild promote" command now supports secondaryLabel and
      promoteMap in stages. (RBLD-59)

Changes in 0.3:
  o Bug Fixes:
    * "rbuild update" in a stage directory adjusted to use
      getEditedRecipeDicts (RBLD-51)

  o Interface Changes:
    * Top-level checked-out directory now includes the major version

  o API Changes:
    * rMake now searches standard rMake plugin directories for rMake
      plugins when invoked via rBuild.

Changes in 0.2:
  o User Interface Changes:
    * Adds configuration interactively when run for the first time.

  o API Changes:
    * Low-level post hooks have been implemented, and are called
      via the handle.installPrehook() method.  A post hook can
      modify the return value from the hooked function. (RBLD-5)

Changes in 0.1:
  o Initial public release.
